Document Microsoft.Data.Sqlite SQLite3MC breaking change (#5385)
aspnet/EntityFramework.Docs: entity-framework/core/what-is-new/ef-core-11.0/breaking-changes.md

Reviewer: @copilot Also mention replacing SQLitePCLRaw.bundle_e_sqlite3mc with SQLite3MC.PCLRaw.bundle

Reviewer: @copilot Also link to the `sqlite-bundles-mc` section as going forward the default SQLite build will support encryption and can be used in a way that's compatible with bundle_e_sqlcipher
Merge this with the **SQLite3 Multiple Ciphers** option and make it first in the list

> [!NOTE]
> If you are using `SQLitePCLRaw.bundle_e_sqlite3`, no changes are required—just update the version number. See the [SQLitePCLRaw 3.0 Release Notes](https://github.com/ericsink/SQLitePCL.raw/blob/main/v3.md) for details.

### Low-impact changes

<a name="sqlite-bundles-mc"></a>

#### Microsoft.Data.Sqlite now bundles SQLite3 Multiple Ciphers

[Tracking PR dotnet/efcore#38402](https://github.com/dotnet/efcore/pull/38402)

##### Old behavior

The `Microsoft.Data.Sqlite` package referenced `SQLitePCLRaw.bundle_e_sqlite3`, which provides the standard `e_sqlite3` native SQLite build. This build has no encryption support, so setting a password (for example, via `SqliteConnectionStringBuilder.Password` or the `Password` connection-string keyword) failed at runtime.

##### New behavior

> Starting with `Microsoft.Data.Sqlite` 11.0, the package references `SQLite3MC.PCLRaw.bundle`, which provides the `e_sqlite3mc` native build ([SQLite3 Multiple Ciphers](https://github.com/utelle/SQLite3MultipleCiphers)). This build receives updates—including upstream SQLite security fixes—on NuGet.org more promptly than `bundle_e_sqlite3`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting with `Microsoft.Data.Sqlite` 11.0, the package references `SQLite3MC.PCLRaw.bundle`, which provides the `e_sqlite3mc` native build ([SQLite3 Multiple Ciphers](https://github.com/utelle/SQLite3MultipleCiphers)). This build receives updates on NuGet.org more promptly than `bundle_e_sqlite3`.
```

> As an added bonus, the new build is encryption-capable by default, so encryption (including setting a password) now works out of the box. See the [SQLite3 Multiple Ciphers documentation](https://github.com/utelle/SQLite3MultipleCiphers-NuGet#passphrase-based-database-encryption-support) for details on enabling passphrase-based database encryption.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an added bonus, encryption (including setting a password) now works out of the box. See the [SQLite3 Multiple Ciphers documentation](https://github.com/utelle/SQLite3MultipleCiphers-NuGet#passphrase-based-database-encryption-support) for details on enabling passphrase-based database encryption.
```

> This change applies only to the `Microsoft.Data.Sqlite` package. In EF Core 11, the EF Core SQLite provider (`Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.Sqlite`) continues to reference `SQLitePCLRaw.bundle_e_sqlite3` rather than `SQLite3MC.PCLRaw.bundle` to preserve existing EF Core application behavior, since the provider doesn't expose SQLite encryption support.

Reviewer: Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.Sqlite references SQLite3MC.PCLRaw.bundle now. Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.Sqlite.Core would need to be used to be able to reference SQLitePCLRaw.bundle_e_sqlite3

##### Why

> The primary reason for the switch is maintenance and security: new versions of the `e_sqlite3` native build are no longer published to NuGet.org through `SQLitePCLRaw.bundle_e_sqlite3` in a timely manner, which means security fixes in upstream SQLite can be delayed. SQLite3 Multiple Ciphers is an actively maintained project that tracks upstream SQLite releases and ships updated builds promptly, so it was adopted as the default native build for `Microsoft.Data.Sqlite`. As an added bonus, it also restores a no-cost SQLite encryption option, which had been lost when the `SQLitePCLRaw.bundle_e_sqlcipher` package was deprecated and removed (see [Encryption-enabled SQLite packages have been removed](#sqlite-encryption-removed)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The primary reason for the switch is maintenance and security: new versions of the `e_sqlite3` native build are no longer published to NuGet.org through `SQLitePCLRaw.bundle_e_sqlite3` in a timely manner, which means security fixes in upstream SQLite can be delayed. SQLite3 Multiple Ciphers is an actively maintained project that tracks upstream SQLite releases and ships updated builds promptly, so it was adopted as the default native build for `Microsoft.Data.Sqlite`. As an added bonus, it also supports encryption, so it can replace the `SQLitePCLRaw.bundle_e_sqlcipher` package that was deprecated and removed (see [Encryption-enabled SQLite packages have been removed](#sqlite-encryption-removed)).
```

##### Mitigations

For most applications, **no action is required**. SQLite3 Multiple Ciphers is a superset of SQLite that behaves identically to the standard build for unencrypted databases—it only applies encryption when you explicitly supply a key or password. Existing unencrypted databases continue to open and work unchanged.

Review the following cases, which may require action in some applications:

- **Native library and provider name change.** The bundled native library is now `e_sqlite3mc` (rather than `e_sqlite3`), and the provider initialized by the bundle is `SQLite3Provider_e_sqlite3mc`. This matters if your application:
  - References a specific native asset filename (for example, `e_sqlite3`) in publishing, trimming, AOT, or single-file configuration. Update those references to `e_sqlite3mc`.

> - **Platform (RID) coverage.** SQLite3 Multiple Ciphers ships native binaries for a different set of runtime identifiers than `bundle_e_sqlite3`. If you target a platform that the new bundle doesn't include, the native library may fail to load at runtime. In that case, revert to the standard build as described below.

Reviewer: @copilot Actually check which RIDs are supported by [SourceGear.sqlite3](https://www.nuget.org/packages/SourceGear.sqlite3) and not supported by [SQLite3MC.PCLRaw.lib](https://www.nuget.org/packages/SQLite3MC.PCLRaw.lib/). If all are supported, remove this line

> [!NOTE]
> If you are using `SQLitePCLRaw.bundle_e_sqlite3`, no changes are required—just update the version number. See the [SQLitePCLRaw 3.0 Release Notes](https://github.com/ericsink/SQLitePCL.raw/blob/main/v3.md) for details.

### Low-impact changes

> <a name="sqlite-bundles-mc"></a>

Reviewer: @copilot Rename to sqlite3mc

##### Why

The primary reason for the switch is maintenance and security: new versions of the `e_sqlite3` native build are no longer published to NuGet.org through `SQLitePCLRaw.bundle_e_sqlite3` in a timely manner, which means security fixes in upstream SQLite can be delayed. SQLite3 Multiple Ciphers is an actively maintained project that tracks upstream SQLite releases and ships updated builds promptly, so it was adopted as the default native build for `Microsoft.Data.Sqlite`. As an added bonus, it also supports encryption. This means it can replace the `SQLitePCLRaw.bundle_e_sqlcipher` package that was deprecated and removed (see [Encryption-enabled SQLite packages have been removed](#sqlite-encryption-removed)).

##### Mitigations

For most applications, **no action is required**. SQLite3 Multiple Ciphers is a superset of SQLite that behaves identically to the standard build for unencrypted databases—it only applies encryption when you explicitly supply a key or password. Existing unencrypted databases continue to open and work unchanged.

Review the following cases, which may require action in some applications:

> 

Reviewer: @copilot Add another case, which will likely be the most common:
The app is referencing SQLitePCLRaw.bundle_e_sqlite3 directly. This will conflict with the new dependency, so the SQLitePCLRaw.bundle_e_sqlite3 reference should be removed
